README.md, before:

# Pumpkin. A Hydra head to support digitization workflows

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin?branch=master)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin)
[![Apache 2.0 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg?style=plastic)](./LICENSE)

Pumpkin is a Hydra head based on [Plum](https://github.com/pulibrary/plum) and  [CurationConcerns](http://github.com/projecthydra/curation_concerns), with two types of works:
* ScannedResource: a book or other resource composed of one or more scanned pages
* MultiVolumeWork: a book set, sammelband or other resource composed of multiple ScannedResources

## Features
* Drag-and-drop tools for reordering FileSets and editing structure
* Generating IIIF manifests for Collections and Works based on that structure
* Building PDFs of Works based on their IIIF manifests
* Performing OCR with Tesseract
* Simple state-based workflow
* Retrieving external metadata from our finding aids and catalog web services

## Dependencies

* [Redis](http://redis.io/)
    * Start Redis with `redis-server` or if you're on certain Linuxes, you can do this via `sudo service redis-server start`.
* [Kakadu](http://kakadusoftware.com/)
    * The installer doesn't work on MacOSX 10.11 (El Capitan), but the files `kdu_compress` and `libkdu_v77R.dylib` can be extracted from the download packages and used by manually installing them in `/usr/local/bin` and `/usr/local/lib` respectively.
* [Tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract)
    * Version 3.04 is required. You can install it on Mac OSX with `brew install
      tesseract --with-all-languages` For Ubuntu you'll have to
      [compile](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/wiki/Compiling) it.
* [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) (Optional)
    * Start with rabbitmq-server
    * Used for publishing create/update/delete events for systems such as
      [Pomegranate](https://github.com/pulibrary/pomegranate)

## Initial Setup

* Install dependencies: `bundle install`
* Setup the database: `rake db:migrate`
* Setup ActiveFedora::Noid minter: `rails g active_fedora:noid:seed`

## Running the Tests

Setup dependencies and run the test suite:

   ```sh
   $ bundle install
   $ rake db:migrate
   $ rake ci
   ```

You may also want to run the Fedora and Solr servers in one window with:

   ```sh
   $ rake hydra:test_server
   ```

And run the test suite in another window:

   ```sh
   $ rake spec
   ```

## Adding an Admin user

1. Run the development servers with `rake server:development`
1. Run Plum with `rails s`
1. Go to http://localhost:3000/users/auth/cas and login with CAS
1. $ rake add_admin_role

## Configuring Loris for Development

1. Install Docker Toolbox [https://www.docker.com/toolbox](https://www.docker.com/toolbox)
  * Only necessary for mac or windows machines. For unix boxes install via
      `wget -qO- https://get.docker.com/ | sh`
1. Start a docker VM: `docker-machine start default`
1. Setup your docker environment: `eval "$(docker-machine env default)"`
1. Retrieve the loris image: `docker pull lorisimageserver/loris`
1. Start the container:
  ```
  docker run --name loris -v /path/to/plum/tmp/derivatives:/usr/local/share/images -d -p 5004:5004 lorisimageserver/loris
  ```
1. Find the docker IP address with `docker-machine ls`
1. Export config variable for IIIF url: `export
   PLUM_IIIF_URL="http://<docker-ip>:5004"`
1. Images should be available at `http://<docker-ip>:5004/` based on the FileSet id.  e.g., if your docker IP address is 192.168.99.100, the full view of FileSet `70795765b` would be at http://192.168.99.100:5004/70%2F79%2F%2F57%2F65%2Fb-intermediate_file.jp2/full/full/0/default.jpg

Commit message:

Add notes about bundle exec and missing tmp directory.

README.md, after:

# Pumpkin. A Hydra head to support digitization workflows

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin?branch=master)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin/badges/gpa.svg)](https://codeclimate.com/github/IU-Libraries-Joint-Development/pumpkin)
[![Apache 2.0 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg?style=plastic)](./LICENSE)

Pumpkin is a Hydra head based on [Plum](https://github.com/pulibrary/plum) and  [CurationConcerns](http://github.com/projecthydra/curation_concerns), with two types of works:
* ScannedResource: a book or other resource composed of one or more scanned pages
* MultiVolumeWork: a book set, sammelband or other resource composed of multiple ScannedResources

## Features
* Drag-and-drop tools for reordering FileSets and editing structure
* Generating IIIF manifests for Collections and Works based on that structure
* Building PDFs of Works based on their IIIF manifests
* Performing OCR with Tesseract
* Simple state-based workflow
* Retrieving external metadata from our finding aids and catalog web services

## Dependencies

* [Redis](http://redis.io/)
    * Start Redis with `redis-server` or if you're on certain Linuxes, you can do this via `sudo service redis-server start`.
* [Kakadu](http://kakadusoftware.com/)
    * The installer doesn't work on MacOSX 10.11 (El Capitan), but the files `kdu_compress` and `libkdu_v77R.dylib` can be extracted from the download packages and used by manually installing them in `/usr/local/bin` and `/usr/local/lib` respectively.
* [Tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract)
    * Version 3.04 is required. You can install it on Mac OSX with `brew install
      tesseract --with-all-languages` For Ubuntu you'll have to
      [compile](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/wiki/Compiling) it.
* [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/) (Optional)
    * Start with rabbitmq-server
    * Used for publishing create/update/delete events for systems such as
      [Pomegranate](https://github.com/pulibrary/pomegranate)

## Initial Setup
You may need to prefix rake commands with `bundle exec`,
particularly if you have a newer version of the rake gem installed. 
* Install dependencies: `bundle install`
* Setup the database: `rake db:migrate`
* Setup ActiveFedora::Noid minter: `rails g active_fedora:noid:seed`

## Running the Tests

Setup dependencies and run the test suite:

   ```sh
   $ bundle install
   $ rake db:migrate
   $ rake ci
   ```
You may need to create the tmp directory, which can be done automatically by 
starting the rails server (`rails s`) and then stopping it.

You may also want to run the Fedora and Solr servers in one window with:

   ```sh
   $ rake hydra:test_server
   ```

And run the test suite in another window:

   ```sh
   $ rake spec
   ```

## Adding an Admin user

1. Run the development servers with `rake server:development`
1. Run Plum with `rails s`
1. Go to http://localhost:3000/users/auth/cas and login with CAS
1. $ rake add_admin_role

## Configuring Loris for Development

1. Install Docker Toolbox [https://www.docker.com/toolbox](https://www.docker.com/toolbox)
  * Only necessary for mac or windows machines. For unix boxes install via
      `wget -qO- https://get.docker.com/ | sh`
1. Start a docker VM: `docker-machine start default`
1. Setup your docker environment: `eval "$(docker-machine env default)"`
1. Retrieve the loris image: `docker pull lorisimageserver/loris`
1. Start the container:
  ```
  docker run --name loris -v /path/to/plum/tmp/derivatives:/usr/local/share/images -d -p 5004:5004 lorisimageserver/loris
  ```
1. Find the docker IP address with `docker-machine ls`
1. Export config variable for IIIF url: `export
   PLUM_IIIF_URL="http://<docker-ip>:5004"`
1. Images should be available at `http://<docker-ip>:5004/` based on the FileSet id.  e.g., if your docker IP address is 192.168.99.100, the full view of FileSet `70795765b` would be at http://192.168.99.100:5004/70%2F79%2F%2F57%2F65%2Fb-intermediate_file.jp2/full/full/0/default.jpg
